---
toc: false
layout: post
description: the little steps that i will be committing to to become a Data Scientist
categories: [markdown]
title: My Roadmap for Becoming a Data Scientist
---

# RoadMap

1. [Data Science and Machine Learning Udemy course.](https://www.udemy.com/course/complete-machine-learning-and-data-science-zero-to-mastery/) (finished in about 3 months)

	Just today (Oct 25th, 2021), i almost the couse. It was very since and taught me how to write code for machine learning models with a small transefer learning model in the end.
I learned how to :
	* Preprocess Data (Cleaning, Imputing, etc)
	* Use Numpy, Pandas for accessing and  manipulating data in dataframes
	* Use Matplotlib to visualize data and figure out how my model is performing
	* Write an end-to-end machine learning models for regression and classification problems.
	* Use TensorFlow and TensorFlow Hub with Keras to build a transefer learning model

	but the course lackes the theortical part of machine learning and deep learning which is what i am looking to do next.

2. [Mathematics for Machine Leaning Coursea course](https://www.coursera.org/learn/linear-algebra-machine-learning/home)



# What i'm looking to do next

Andrew Ng Youtube playlist

Data Science from Scratch Book from O'reilly

# Notes
* I should not stop doing Kaggle comeptitions and should be coming up with my own ideas while taking a therotical course. I'll feel discouraged to compelete the course if all i see is the math and equations. And to not forget the practical part.

# Storytelling
* (Oct 27<sup>th</sup>, 2021) After a little bit of thinking i decided to start with Andrew Ng's Machine Learning Playlist on YouTube. But before that, i'd like to review all the math needed to complete the course which include:
  * Linear Algebra
  * Multi-variable calculas
  * Probability and Statistics

  [The Mathematics for Machine Learning Coursera course](https://www.coursera.org/learn/linear-algebra-machine-learning/home/) covers the first two points plus PCA (principal component analysis). so after finishing it, i'll search for a convinent course for probability and statistics for machine learning.
  
  
# Deadlines
* Finish the ZTM:Data Science and Machine Learning course
	* Start on: (idk exactly but around August)
	* Deadline on: Nov 25<sup>th</sup>, 2021
	* Finished on: Oct 25<sup>th</sup>, 2021 (one month early)
* Mathematics for Machine Learning: Linear Algebra (~18h course)
	* Start on: Oct 27<sup>th</sup>, 2021
	* Deadline on: Nov 27<sup>th</sup>, 2021
	* Finished on: Dec 3<sup>rd</sup>, 2021 (one week late)
* Mathematics for Machine Learning: Multivariate Calculas (~18h course)
	* Start on: Dec 4<sup>th</sup>, 2021
	* Deadline on: Jan 17<sup>th</sup>, 2021
	* Finished on: TBD
